---
title: "Racism vs Colorism"
date: 2020-07-19
comments: true
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

A friend of mine posted a humorous status on Facebook, satirizing the
Bangladeshi people who were agreeing with the Black Lives Matter
movement in America. His argument was that we prefer women with
lighter skin tone to darker one, and so we have no right to judge
Americans while being entrenched in racism ourselves.

Of course, he and I both knew that sexual attraction has little to do
with racism, but I could not shake the feeling of a deep-rooted
connection between the two. So I did a little digging, and found out
that it is not an issue specific to our country only, but an universal
one. All over the world, fair skin is synonymous with beauty and
status while dark skin is with danger and mystery.

It is not hard to guess where this sense of symbolism comes from.
There is, of course, not one but many factors at play here. The one
that is relevant to beauty standards, though, is cultural perception.

Ours is a culture largely based on farming. We associate dark skin
tone with hard labor in the sun and rural poverty, while fair skin
tone is associated with a comfortable and cosmopolitan lifestyle out
of the sun. Skin color, for us, is a sign of social class structure,
however invisible. Add to that the beauty standards put to us by the
magazines, televisions, and billboards, and you have got a pretty
shitty system in place defining the taste of a whole nation where
mothers admonish their children if they play too long in the sun,
where women feel ugly if their skin is darker than their friends’,
where men use ridiculous amount of skin-care products just to look
fairer.

Let’s get back to the connection with racism now.

I told the friend of mine, who posted the aforementioned satirical
status, that preferring pale-skinned women has nothing to do with
racism. I said, “You prefer women to guys for sexual partner. Would
you call that sexism?” He countered: “What if majority of us prefer
white skin tone, would that be racism then?” I denied the argument,
but without proper reasoning. What I said was that he was mixing up
racism with body-image issues--which was true, he was mixing them
up--but I did not have enough counter-arguments. Now I do.

Enter **colorism**: the prejudice or discrimination against
individuals with a dark skin tone, *typically among people of the same
ethnic or racial group*.

Now, compare the definition above with that of **racism**: prejudice,
discrimination, or antagonism directed against a person or people on
the basis of their membership of a particular racial or ethnic group,
*typically one that is a minority or marginalized*.

What my friend was talking about was colorism. Neither he nor I was
familiar with the term--which might be an issue in itself worth a
deeper look into--and so we did not know what we were mixing up racism
with. There is a clear distinction between the two. Racism is
prejudice against an individual because of the marginalized ethnic or
racial group they belong to. Colorism is prejudice against individuals
with dark skin, typically directed by the people of the same ethnic or
racial group as the victim.

Although preferring light skin color over others is not the same as
having prejudice against people with dark skin, there is obviously a
connection here. What the exact nature of that connection is and how
it relates to racism, I am afraid is a bigger issue than I have the
knowledge or expertise to explore and explain. I will leave you here
to do your own research.

But before you go, let me ask you something. What exactly do you mean
when you praise a person saying their skin is glowing? How does
someone’s skin glow? Or are you praising them because their skin tone
has turned lighter than it was before?
