---
layout: story
title: "Forsaken"
date: 2020-01-30 11:26:46 +06
categories: Story
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

She had never been happy. Not really. Yes, there have been occasional
compliments from people she admired, frequent gifts wishing her the best
from people close to her. But those were ephemeral moments compared to
the churning sea of confusion and emptiness that was her life.

No. Sitting on the two-seater sofa in the pristine office of her
psychiatrist, Meera decided that she had never been happy.

“Are you sure you’re not physically harmed?” asked Dr. Shaila.

“Yes. I told you, I’m fine,” replied Meera.

*No, you’re not!*

“Where is your husband right now?” asked Dr. Shaila.

“How the fuck should I know! He can be in hell for all I care.”

“Meera, I’m trying to gauge whether you’re in any danger from your
husband. Otherwise, I’ll have to call the police sooner than later.
Meera, are you listening? Meera.”

“Yeah, yes, I’m listening.”

“Does your husband know where you are right now?”

“Shovon,” stated Meera.

“What?”

“His name is Shovon. Stop calling him my husband.”

*But he is your husband. Your partner. Your protector. The love of your
life.*

“Yes, I’m sorry. Does Shovon know that you’re in my chamber?” asked Dr.
Shaila.

“No, I don’t think so. I didn’t even get an appointment. I just came
down here. He can’t know where I am.”

*Of course he knows. Where else would you go? Do you have any other
place to go to?*

“And what about the voices and the visions? Any more auditory or visual
hallucinations after our last session?” asked Dr. Shaila.

“No. The pills you gave me, I think they’re working.”

*Are they now? That’s interesting. What do you know, the pills are
working! That’s very funny. Because you see, Meera, you don’t even take
the pills. So, tell me, my love, how do they work, exactly?*

“Alright, then. If you’re sure you don’t need medical attention, let’s
start with what happened,” said Dr. Shaila.

*Yes, tell her, Meera. Tell her what happened. Tell her what he did to
you. Or better yet, tell her what you did to him.*

“Meera, are you okay? You look pale,” said Dr. Shaila.

“Hmm? Oh, no. I’m fine.” Meera pointed to a flask on the desk beside Dr.
Shaila, “Is that water?”

“Yes,” she handed over the flask to Meera.

“Oh! Wow. It’s cold. Iced, is it?” asked Meera.

“Yes. I can send for tap water if you want.”

“No, no. It’s fine. Iced water would be better, honestly.”

Meera took a sip of the water, waited a second, then took a big gulp,
trying to push down whatever was residing on her chest. It didn’t work.
Her chest still felt heavy.

“Whenever you’re ready,” said Dr. Shaila.

“Could you put that pad down?” asked Meera, pointing toward the notepad
Dr. Shaila was holding.

“I would like to take note, Meera. You know how it goes. Otherwise, I
won’t be able to help you.”

*She won’t be able to help you anyway.*

“Just for today,” said Meera. “Today, you just listen to me. How about
that?”

“Of course,” Dr. Shaila put down the notepad on the desk. “Let’s start
then, if you’re ready.”

*Yes, Meera, let’s start.*

---

Meera couldn't remember when she decided to marry Shovon. She did,
however, remember the moments she fell for him. There were multiple
moments, not one. That time when he gave her his sandals because her
heels were killing her feet. And that time he reached over to push a
strand of hair behind her ear. And that time when she turned over on his
bed and saw him smiling at her, perched up on his hand. She couldn’t
remember when she first fell for him, either. But that hardly mattered.
What mattered is that she fell, and fell hard.

She met him at a coffee shop. He was sitting at a small round table
facing the door, an ivory colored laptop and a steaming coffee mug in
front of him.

She sat down at the table behind him and ordered a sandwich. After a
second, she called the waiter back and ordered another one. She noticed
that the guy in front of her wasn’t looking at the computer so much as
looking over it. After a few minutes, when the waiter brought the two
sandwiches, she told him to give one to the guy in front of her. He came
over to her, a confused look on his face.

“Sorry, have we met before?” he asked.

“No,” smiled Meera.

“Oh! Okay. It’s just that you sent me a sandwich.”

“Yeah.”

“Just ‘yeah’? Nothing else to say?”

“Have you eaten yet? Breakfast?”

“No.”

“Do you want the sandwich?”

“I mean…”

“Well, there you go.”

“Are you saying you’re my fairy godmother or something?”

“Maybe.”

“You know, for someone who sends breakfasts to strangers, you’re pretty
reserved.”

“For someone who got free breakfast, you’re pretty unhappy.”

He smiled then, pulled back the chair.

“Do you mind?” he asked.

“Suit yourself,” said Meera, in between bites of her sandwich.

He brought his laptop, sandwich and coffee mug to her table, sat down
and kept staring at her.

“You said you wanted the sandwich,” reminded Meera.

“I do.”

“It’s getting cold.”

He smiled and started unwrapping the sandwich. He took a bite and washed
it down with some coffee.

“Do you do this often?”

“What?”

“Sending people you don’t know free breakfasts.”

“No, I don’t do this often. I’m not a weirdo,” said Meera. “In fact,
this is the first time.”

“Well, seems like I’m a special someone you don’t know.”

“Maybe we ought to change that. Huh?”

“I’m Shovon,” he put his hand forward.

“Nice to meet you, Shovon,” Meera took his hand. “I’m Meera.”

“Nice to meet you, Meera. Nicer to meet the sandwich, though,” Shovon
took another bite.

“You’re welcome.”

“Why did you send the sandwich?” asked Shovon.

“I don’t know.”

She was telling the truth. She didn’t know why she sent the sandwich.
Maybe it was because the guy was really cute. His skin was olive
colored. He had long hair with some fringes covering his forehead
messily that made her want to push them back with her hand. He was
wearing a green striped shirt with long sleeves rolled up to his elbows.
He had a smile always trying to slip out of the corner of his mouth that
made her want to smile too.

Maybe she sent the sandwich because her psychiatrist had told her to get
out of her comfort zone. She had never been an outspoken person. Since
the voices, it had gotten worse. She was not schizophrenic. The tests
came negative. So, the doctor had told her to try and meet new people.
She told her that everybody had a fear of first encounter, that she had
to just do it, like that Nike logo. Maybe today Meera finally took up on
that challenge.

Maybe destiny intervened. Why not? Stranger things have happened.

“What are you doing on your computer?” asked Meera, sipping on her
second cup of coffee.

“It’s a novel,” replied Shovon. “Not mine. I’m reviewing it”

“So, you’re an editor?”

“No. Well, part-time, I guess. Freelance editor, you could say.”

“So, there’s a full-time job then?”

“I work at a newspaper company. Vorer Alo. I mostly write for the weekly
magazine.”

“Interesting. I wanted to be a writer, when I was in college.”

“What happened? Grew up?” Shovon laughed nervously.

“No, I didn’t have any talent.”

“What did you do, then, instead of becoming a writer?”

“Became a software security engineer.”

“That pays better than writing, I bet.”

“I guess,” Meera finished her coffee. “Listen, I gotta go. It was nice
meeting you.”

“Yeah, same.”

Meera took out the money for the breakfast, motioned for the waiter and
put it down on the table. With another look at Shovon, she stood up,
shouldered her bag and pushed open the door.

“Hey, do you want to meet up again sometime?” asked Shovon from behind
her.

Meera looked back, waited a moment and returned to their table. She
brought out her phone and gave him her number.

“See you again, then,” said Shovon.

“Yeah, bye.”

Leaving a last smile for Shovon, Meera turned away and went out the
door. Couple of seconds later, walking down the street, something
occurred to her.

The voices didn’t appear the whole time she was with him.

---

The voices didn’t have their own existence at first. They were an
extension of Meera’s thoughts. Most prominent of these voices were that
of her mother. Meera moved out of her house but couldn’t leave her voice
behind. It had always been with her; nagging, pestering, judging. But
even though the voice was her mother’s, the thoughts were hers.

Other voices were scattered. Sometimes it was one of her high-school
teacher. Sometimes it was the saleswoman at the dress shop she used to
visit. Sometimes it was her father. Sometimes it was her childhood
friend. She couldn’t even remember her name, but her voice was with her.

Even though there were so many voices, she didn’t feel laden by them.
After all, they were manifestations of her own thoughts. They screamed
at her every time she tried to do something new or exciting. They made
her feel self-conscious, made her judge everything she did, every choice
she made. Despite all that, she didn’t feel burdened. Because she felt
that the voices were her own. She felt that she was in control.

Then the visions started.

They started sometimes after her marriage. They were always the same
visions. You’d think the same stuff wouldn’t be as scary the second time
around. You’d be wrong.

The most terrifying was the time when she had visions while on a bus. It
was terrifying because, for a scary period of time, she thought she was
trapped in the vision.

She was returning home from a park. The day was cloudy and the weather
was cool. Sitting on a seat of the bus, she adjusted her sleeves and
scarf to cover her arms for warmth. She already had gloves on.

Two middle-aged men were sitting directly in front of her. One had hair
rapidly receding from the top of his head. The other’s hair had already
completed the process of receding. The semi-bald man and the
completely-bald man were reading a newspaper holding it in front of
them.

“See, there are two news of rapes in a single day,” the semi-bald man
noted.

“What do you expect? Girls nowadays don’t have any decency,” the
completely-bald man retorted.

“I guess. But one of these rapes isn’t even a girl!”

“Just because a girl isn’t of age doesn’t mean she shouldn’t present
herself modest.”

“No, not that. This one is a boy of fifteen.”

“What?” asked the semi-bald man, confused as if he had heard something
that couldn’t be.

“Yes, here. Read that.”

“But how can a boy be raped?”

“What do you mean ‘How can a boy be raped’?” retorted the
completely-bald man. “Someone forced himself onto the boy.”

“It was a man?” asked the semi-bald man, more confused than before.

“Just read the report,” barked the bald man, fed up with the
conversation.

Meera didn’t hear the whole conversation. She was already in her
visions.

A blink. The cloudy day changed to moonlit night.

Another blink. Everything she was wearing vanished. She was naked.

Another blink. All the people in the bus turned their heads toward her.

Another blink. The people had green froth running down their mouth and
chin.

Another blink. The people on the bus were stood up and the lights kept
flickering.

Another blink. The people charged toward her, their mouths open, their
teeth assuming the shape of fangs. She was thrown on the ground of the
bus, the people on top of her. They kept tearing at her, trying to sink
their teeth into her. She rolled herself into a ball and tried to
breathe.

*It’s just like a dream. Everything will be okay.*

The lights went out.

She felt the weight of all those people leaving her. She opened her eyes
slowly and looked at her surroundings. She was lying on a road
underneath a moonlit sky. Slowly, she stood up. The moon was the color
of old blood and the road seemed endless, going straight forward and
backward as far as she could see.

There were dead bodies lying around the sides of the road. Huge bristly
animals were feeding on them.

“It’s gonna go away. It’s just a dream,” she reminded herself. She
started to make a tight fist, her nails creating marks on her palm,
harder and harder. Dr. Shaila had taught her that physical pain would
force her mind back to reality.

Embracing herself for warmth, she started walking forward. The dead
bodies were all female — as it had been in all her previous visions — of
ages ranging from toddler to forty. One one side of the road, a brown
wolf-like creature bit down on a little girl’s cheek taking a handful of
flesh and bone away while, simultaneously, fucking her. On the other
side of the road, two green slimy blobs were feeding on a girl about her
age. One blob was feeding on her shoulder and another was feeding on her
vagina. There were pieces of flesh and bone discarded here and there.
The road was flooded with blood.

Everywhere she looked, she saw the same scenery, as if she was in an
infinity mirror room and couldn’t find her way out.

*Why isn’t it working?*

She looked down on her palms. There were no nail marks. Somehow her
nails had failed to scratch her palms. There was something else.

There was something written on her chest with a pink lipstick.

“I am a slut,” it said.

*That has never happened before!*

She tried to erase the writing, violently rubbing on her chest. It
didn’t go away. Instead, under the blood moon, it started glowing.

She started scratching on her arms, scared that this time she might be
trapped in this nightmare. But no matter how much she scratched, she
could feel nothing on her arms.

A cloud passed over the moon and the surrounding turned from blood red
to grisly green. As if that change was a signal, all the creatures
turned their attention to her. She felt her breath caught in her lungs.
With blood curling howls, the creatures charged at her. She started to
turn back and run the opposite way. But a horde of dissimilar creatures
crashed onto her from her back.

“Ma’am, are you okay?” asked a guy, shaking her by her arms.

It took a couple of seconds for Meera to realize where she was. She
looked around. There was the bald and the semi-bald man sitting in front
of her. The bus was standing still and everybody inside was staring at
her, confused and concerned. The guy who pulled her back from her vision
was standing by her seat, looking terrified.

“Are you okay, Ma’am?” he asked again.

Ignoring him, Meera looked down. She wasn’t naked. Her arms were covered
with a woolen sweater and a scarf. Her palms were covered with heavy
leather gloves.

Meera made a mental note to never again wear gloves no matter how cold
the weather was.

---

The first couple years of their marriage went perfectly. Maybe it wasn’t
romantic enough for a romance novel. But Meera couldn't ask for more and
neither could Shovon.

They had met up at a concert after their first meeting at the coffee
shop. It wasn’t until about a month later that Meera fell for him, but
she appreciated any time with him because, for reasons unknown, the
voices went away when she was with him. And even though she hadn’t fell
for him yet, Meera found him on her bed the morning after the concert.

Sleeping around wasn’t Meera’s forte. She had a hard time merely making
new acquaintances. So, getting men left and right was but a fantasy. But
whenever her colleagues did set her up with someone and she did end up
fucking that someone, she had to spend the morning after listening to
all the voices shouting, “Slut!” over and over.

That didn’t happen with Shovon.

Maybe that’s why, a couple of days later, she found herself on her bed
with his head between her legs.

“You know, most guys of my generation has a fetish for Japanese
schoolgirl uniform,” she teased.

“I have had my share of schoolgirl roleplay,” he straightened up to put
himself inside her. “Not bad, but gets old pretty quick.”

“But I’d think fucking a girl with a business suit on would almost feel
like fucking a dude,” she grabbed the headboard with both her hands.

“Maybe I like almost fucking dudes,” he started thrusting.

A year later, already fallen deeply in love with him multiple times, she
popped the question while lying next to him, sweating and breathing hard
from exhaustion.

“Wanna get married?” she asked.

“No,” he replied.

“Me neither.”

They got married.

The problems in their relationship didn’t originate on marriage. The
first couple years were as perfect for Meera and Shovon as their first
year of dating was.

Maybe the problems started when she slapped him on a public road because
of an argument. Or maybe the problems started when she found out he
slept with her barely adult assistant. Or maybe the problems started
when she became an increasingly hopeless alcoholic.

Maybe all of these were responsible for the problems.

Maybe something else was.

The sex life was still as raunchy as their early days. She still felt
her hunger rising when he put his mouth on her neck, his cheek pressing
on her shoulder. He still felt his thirst surging when she pushed him on
his back and got on top, her dark hair swinging behind her. They still
shuddered at the moment of climax, both sweaty, tired and euphoric.

But all the passion didn’t make up for any of the abuse.

Most of the time, it started the same way. Out of nowhere, one of them
would start talking about something passionately and the other would
take up on the argument, feeling personally attacked. Within minutes,
they would both realize that they were not arguing about the subject
they initially started arguing about. But that wouldn’t resolve the
matter. The realization that the quarrel was over would instead send
them into a wide array of subject to squabble about. This time the
subjects would be personal.

Sometimes the things they would bicker about would not even be things
they hated.

It didn’t matter that she liked his soft snoring at the onset of his
sleep. She would bring it up anyway.

It didn’t matter that he liked her eating from his plate at restaurants.
He would bring it up anyway.

It didn’t matter that they liked how they left personal times for each
other. They would bring it up anyway.

After a while, Shovon would lose his composure and start beating on
Meera and she would start throwing stuff at him. This step of the
argument never lasted long. He would always break down crying, on his
knees. He would promise her that he would never again lay hands on her.
He would tell her how scarred his childhood had been because of his
abusive father. She would console him to sleep, her pajamas soaked with
his tears.

Their days went like that. Sex and fight. Day after day. Night after
night.

Until the night Meera woke up with a monster feeding on her.

The moon was blood red and the road an endless stretch. Her face was
turned toward the road. There were dead bodies lying everywhere. All of
them were her. Feeding on them were appalling creatures from the deepest
dungeons.

It took a couple of seconds for Meera to understand she was having one
of her visions.

*It’s just a hallucination. No need to panic. It’s gonna end soon.*

Then she felt something banging softly on her bush. She looked up and
saw a grisly demon feeding on her breasts, its mouth filled with blood
and slobber, red and green. She panicked and tried to get away. The
beast looked at her, confused and startled, then pushed her down on the
ground.

She tightened her fist and, seeing that her nails left no marks,
panicked. She could hear the sound of flesh tearing from the other side
of the road. A cloud blocked the blood moon, leaving the surrounding
green and rotten.

Trying and failing to keep her panic under control, she inhaled a deep
breath and punched the face of the beast with all her strength, emptying
her lungs with the blow. A sound of bones breaking. Now, the jaw
disfigured, the beast held down on her hands. With no other option, she
reached out and bit down on its throat, her mouth filling with hot
blood, sickly and rancid. The beast fell down on her, showering her with
blood, pus and scum.

Suffocating, she pushed the bristly demon aside and stood up. She was
naked and parts of her chest were stripped away, leaving the bones and
internal organs gaping open. Watching her heart beating inside her own
wounded chest and tasting the rotten blood of an otherworldly demon in
her mouth, she heaved. Once, twice. Then she vomited.

She was in her room, standing before the bedside table with a page of Ambien
pills lying on it. The glass cover on the table reflected her wearing a silk
blue Captain Marvel costume — now drenched with blood — that was surely bought
at a dingy adult shop, her hands covered with gloves that went to her elbow. A
horrible realization came slithering across the dark part of her mind like a
snake zig-zagging over a forest pond. Smelling something acrid, she turned
around.

Shovon was lying dead on the bed, his throat mutilated and a GoPro
camera fastened to his head.

---

“Let’s start then, if you’re ready,” said Dr. Shaila, putting down her
notepad on the desk.

*Yes, Meera, let’s start. Tell her how your husband raped you who knows
how many times. Tell her how you had to kill him because there was no
other way. Let’s see how much of it she believes. I bet she won’t
believe any of it.*

“I’m sorry. I gotta go,” Meera said, standing up.

“What? Meera, you can’t go back,” said Dr. Shaila. “You’ve been
assaulted. You’re in danger.”

“You don’t understand.”

*No one will understand. No one will even believe you.*

Before Dr. Shaila could say anything else, Meera turned and went out the
door and was soon walking down the street. There was a truck coming
toward her, its headlights blinding her already tear-smeared vision.

*You think a couple videos would prove anything? Everybody will say you
doctored the footage. You’ll be put in the death row. What do you think
you’ll be sentenced to die by? Hanging? Electrocution? But let’s not be
Debbie Downer, huh? Let’s be optimistic! Let’s say they do prove the
videos to be authentic. You think they’d believe your story? If you ask
me, sweety, they would look at the dead body and listen to your story
and put you in a cuckoo house where you’ll spend the rest of your
miserable life with people equally miserable. Maybe you’ll find a new
husband there. Who knows?*

She had never been happy. Not really. Yes, there have been occasional
compliments from people she admired, frequent gifts wishing her the best
from people close to her. But those were ephemeral moments compared to
the churning sea of confusion and emptiness that was her life.

No. Walking toward the rapidly approaching truck, ignoring its blaring
horn, Meera decided that she had never been happy.
