---
title: "Building a Character"
date: 2020-04-28
comments: true
category: Essay
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

Characters are the life force of a story. Yes, dazzling locations,
thrilling plot, and heartwarming themes are all well and good, but if
you don't have well-developed characters, your story will fall flat on
its misshapen ass. People don't read stories for locations (they could
browse Instagram for that), nor for plot (they could skim the synopsis
if that was the case). People read stories for characters they could
spend some alone time with without feeling lonely.

Now that we have established the importance of characters in a story,
let us look at how to build one from the ground up. As you might
already suspect, there are no hard and fast rules of building a
character. At least, none yet discovered, or if discovered, the
discoverer has not yet shared it with the rest of the world. Here,
we'll only look at the character of Spider-Man and imagine how the
process of its creation must have gone.

## Imaginary Scenario of Someone Creating the Character of Spider-Man

Yesterday, my five year old nephew told me that it would be "sick" if
he could shoot web from his hands like spiders. The idea of someone
shooting web and slinging around the neighbourhood got stuck in my
head. I started to think up what the character might be like.

First came the name: Spider-Man. Precise and concise. Then came his
physique: lithe and strong. Strong as in athletically strong, not
body-builder strong, because, although spiders--the likeness of
Spider-Man--are strong creatures, none of them have abs like Dwayne
Johnson. At least, I don't think so.

Then I figured out couple of choices as to how someone might become
Spider-Man. Maybe he is from a planet where everybody is like that.
Maybe he was born with superhero powers because of a scientific
experiment. Or maybe he was bit by a radioactive spider. All are
promising choices, none yet selected.

Later, I started thinking about the man behind the alter ego: who he
might be, what he does, what he fears, etc. This was the tricky part.
Because, here, I had to transform an action figure into a living,
breathing, hurting human being. Coming to this phase, the story about
a man getting bit by a spider caught my eyes. Because that would mean
he has to figure out how to deal with his newfound powers and
responsibilities--an interesting struggle. But, if he has to learn to
be a more responsible person, does it not make more sense if the man
is not a man at all, but a teenager on the cusp of manhood? Why, yes!
It does! And, the analogy of shooting webs, white and sticky, goes
well with the whole puberty thing. So does the changing of his body
(due to spider in the story, due to puberty allegorically). It all
comes together.

Now, after all the thinking, we have got a full-fledged character on
our hand, whose every aspect goes together like bones in a skeleton.

## Ending Remarks

If youâ€™re writing a short story or a single-issue comic, you might be
able to get the job done with a generic Joe or Jane. But if it's a
novel or a multi-volume comic you're working on, you'll need your
story to have a beating heart. You'll need a character whose every
aspect complement each other like spices in a recipe. Otherwise, the
novel (or the multi-volume comic) will die before it even learns to
walk.
