---
title: "Joker and Why We Love Him"
date: 2020-01-01 22:18:46 +06
comments: true
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

## Introduction

If there were a list of most popular characters in pop culture
history, Batman and Joker would be near the top. The masked duo are
the best example of Nemesis in creative media.

## The Definitive Version

For me and most of my generation, Christopher Nolan's *The Dark
Knight* is the definitive version of Batman and Joker. There have been
plenty of adaptations featuring these two characters, but none had the
sweeping success and widespread recognition *The Dark Knight* had.

## What even is a Nemesis

*Nemesis* or *arch-enemy* is a subcategory of villain. While a villain
clashes with a hero because their objectives disrupt each other, a
nemesis engages because he has a personal interest in the hero.

## Joker as the Nemesis of Batman

Although he is not the most powerful enemy, Joker is the most
memorable villain in the Rogue Gallery. That is because the characters
of Joker and Batman contrast each other. Batman is a persona adorned
by a millionaire to fight crime in Gotham. Joker is a persona worn by
a psychiatric patient who thinks he is an agent of chaos. One uses a
fearsome dark suit to fight darkness, the other a colorful costume to
incite chaos.

Any good story needs two kinds of conflicts: primary conflicts and
secondary conflicts. Conflicts are any obstacle preventing a character
from getting what they want. A primary conflict is the main conflict
of the story, that is, the conflict the story is based on. For
example: Frodo wants to throw the One Ring in the Mount Doom but the
servants of Sauron tries to stop him from doing so. The secondary
conflict is the emotional or psychological hurdle a protagonist must
overcome to get what he wants. For example: Frodo must resist the
corruption of the One Ring while he bears it.

The secondary conflict is the reason why Joker works so well against
Batman. Joker does not need strength or resources. He does not try to
defeat Batman in hand-to-hand combat. Instead, he attacks what Batman
is and what Batman stands for. The whole ideology of Batman stands on
the notion that the weak needs protection from the evil and he needs
to be that protection. Joker wants to show him that people do not
deserve his protection.

In *The Dark Knight*, when Batman rushes at Joker on his Batpod with a
murderous rage, Joker repeats, "Come on! I want you to do it." But, at
the last moment, Batman controls himself, nearly missing Joker. Batman
cannot kill Joker because that would mean he is just as insane as the
Joker and he cannot let that be true. Joker will not kill Batman
because he thinks he cannot get a worthier opponent. These two
characters are going to be in perpetual conflict because of the very
nature of their characters.

## Conclusion

The reason why Joker works so well against Batman is because Joker
continuously attacks what Batman stands for, forcing Batman to
continually fight his own dark side and come out stronger.
