---
title: "In Praise of Horror"
date: 2020-04-04
categories: Article
comments: true
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

## I Apologize

First of all, nobody is God Emperor Overlord of taste. Everyone can
like whatever they want to like. Anything here is only my view. Though
I tried not to look down upon anything myself while pointing out how
others look down upon the things I like, I'd still like to apologize
beforehand if I've done so unknowingly.

## Genre Snobbery Exists

Ever heard of genre snobbery? It means laughing at a genre because
some people decided it is beneath the taste of sophisticated people.
Critiques and writers alike from literary fiction side have been
turning up their noses at genre fiction since the beginning of time.
These 'unsophisticated' genres include genres like Fantasy, Sci-Fi and
Horror.

## Sci-Fi and Fantasy are Awesome

Thanks to celebrated writers like Ray Bradbury and H.G. Wells, Sci-Fi
genre has garnered much deserved attention in literary societies. And,
due to unprecedented success of movies like the Lord of the Rings
trilogy and Harry Potter series, which were both adapted from very
popular and successful book series, Fantasy genre at last now receives
the appreciation it deserves. Also, the advancement of Nerd Culture
has had an influence on the success of these genres.

## Horror is Still Niche

The genre still struggling to gasp in the air above the drowning sea
of snobbery is Horror. While it has, now and always, a dedicated
fanbase who celebrate the genre with all its gory glory, the so-called
literary society still doesn't see the value of Horror in literature.
You can argue that the situation is changing because of macabre
authors like Stephen King. But even he, one of the most prolific and
masterclass author working for decades, gets snubbed in literary
circles. Horror, even in today's age of Nerd Culture, is still
considered niche.

## Genre and Setting

Truth is, Fantasy, Sci-Fi, Horror, these are all just settings for the
reader to know what to expect. They present no boundary whatsoever in
the quality of fiction. They just give the writer the leeway he needs
to explore ideas. People who don't like horror often says stories with
gratuitous violence, stupid plots and stupider characters don't hold
much value for them. They are right of course. There are many horror
stories that are just that: gratuitous violence. But that's like
saying, "All fantasy stories are about elves and dwarfs who journey to
a mountain to destroy a ring." Yes, due to the success of Lord of the
Rings, writers everywhere has written uncountable stories uncannily
similar to it. Most of them were objectively bad. But Game of Thrones
has taught people what Fantasy can offer: everything. How? Because,
Fantasy is not a boundary, it's just a setting.

## What Makes Good Horror

Let's talk about the elements of good horror stories. Cause there are
some bad ones. Fans and haters of the genre alike can point out what
the bad ones are. I mean, who likes jump scares? They are pathetic
devices for writers who doesn't have any other tool in his repertoire.
So, what makes good horrors?

1. **Believable plot.** It's not like you can't have any fantastical
element in the story. You can. You just need to do the worldbuilding
and weave the story around the fantastical element.

2. **Sympathetic characters.** Good horror stories, like any other
stories (except maybe idealistic Sci-Fi), are about people. If the
reader or viewer doesn't sympathize with the characters, they are
gonna feel disconnected.

3. **Horror elements the characters have connection with.** This is
the most important aspect of a horror story that most writers don't
bother to work on. Five friends getting in a random haunted house and
getting killed while having an orgy is, at best, bad fiction.

## Show, Not Tell

Talking and reading about ideas feels like academic work. Boring and
draining. So, examples from a few good horror stories follow. I tried
not to spoil the stories for anyone not yet familiar with them. But,
just to be on the side of caution, a spoiler warning is hereby issued.
Read ahead at your own risk.

### The Shining (Stephen King novel)

A father has to stay as a maintainer in a haunted hotel, which has
been emptied out for the winter because the area it's situated at is
cut-off from the rest of the world due to heavy snowfall, with his
wife and six years old son. On surface level, it would appear that
this is exactly the random haunted house narrative device I said was
bad. But this particular story has a lot more to offer than others
using the same narrative device.

The dad was an alcoholic. He had had many problems earlier in his life
because of heavy drinking, from beating up his students in drunken
episodes to (possibly) killing a child in a road accident. But after
he broke his baby son's hand in drunken rage, he took some help and at
last has been able to keep the demons of alcohol at bay.

Until the Overlook Hotel possessed him and tried to murder his family.

You might think, "How is this better than any other haunted house
story? It's just more of the same old thing." Let me tell you, it's
not. As stated before, the dad was an alcoholic, and although he had
been sober for a respectable amount of time, the narrative of the
novel pointedly shows how alluring the beckon of a wine bottle is to
him. He has done terrible things in drunken stupor before. Both his
wife and son know he can become violent if he starts drinking again.
Even he knows that. But he starts drinking anyway when the pressure of
isolation breaks him and the hotel manipulates his perception of his
wife, portraying her in a villainous frame.

The haunted hotel just provides the writer with a setting, a leeway,
for exploring the cause and effect of alcoholism. Yes, a sobered up
alcoholic won't be forced to start drinking because of a haunted house
in the real world, but he will always be on the brink of falling on
same dangerous behavior if his friends and family doesn't support him
properly. The Shining is a brilliant portrayal of how someone and his
whole family can be mortally doomed because of heavy drinking.

Now, if you put some random dudes in the Overlook Hotel and killed
them, it won't have the same connection between the characters and the
horror elements. The whole story would fall flat on its ass in the
gutter.

### The Invisible Man (2020 movie)

Originally created by H.G. Wells in his 1897 novel with the same name,
the character of the invisible man has been prevalent in pop culture
since forever. The original story dealt with the possible catastrophe
one man could inflict upon the society if he were to given the ability
to be invisible. The premise might seem bonkers. "Why would we think
about the implications of invisibility? It's not like someone has
invented the Invisibility Cloak." Well, guess what? Somebody has.
It's called the Internet.

Anyway, the allegory of invisibility to anonymity is from the original
novel. It was a very good Horror novel in its own right, but this
section is not about that particular novel, because another novel has
already been discussed. As repetition is boring, let's get back to the
movie.

The movie is about a woman escaping from an abusive relation. Her
partner restricted her connection to the outside world, then her
movement around and outside the house, and gradually even her opinions
and thoughts. So, she flees from what can basically be called
captivity. But, as she struggles to get back to normal lifestyle
following the trauma of the abusive relation, her partner comes back
and haunts her, now completely invisible.

Any victim of abuse goes through a period of trauma. Some of them
can't overcome it completely at all. During this period, she\-\-I'll
use feminine pronoun for the character of victim here, because of the
characterization in the movie, and also because I did the inverse in
the previous section\-\-has to look behind her shoulder all the time
to convince herself that her abuser is not back to hurt her anymore.
Abuse not only hurts physically, it breaks the mental strength and
self confidence of the victim.

This movie explores the idea of always being scared of more abuse
because of past abuse in a clever way. In the movie the abuser
actually does come back to hurt her, which won't happen in real life
(hopefully), or at least, won't happen the way it did in the movie.
But it provides a picture to understand the harrowing experience the
victims of abuse go through. That's good horror. And good
literature.

### The Haunting of Hill House (Mike Flanagan TV series)

This story actually blew my mind away. It showed me how you can play
with familiar story elements in totally unfamiliar ways to create
utter and absolute horror. It's a masterclass. The ending was a little
soppy for my taste. But it was sweet too, which is unusual in horror
stories. So, that was not a bad idea. Anyway, this is not a review of
the TV series. Let's get back to the horror elements.

A family lives in a haunted house in order to renovate it before
selling it. But the mother develops a terrible case of being overly
protective of her children and decides to take radical steps to ensure
their absolute safety.

The narration progresses along two different timelines at the same
time. One shows what happened after their stay at the haunted house,
the aftereffects and consequences. The other shows what happened at
the haunted house.

The children, now all grown up, have problems unique to their own
characters that revolve around their experience at the Hill House.
Their relationship with the father is shown to be deteriorated because
he had not told the children what actually happened at the Hill House
at the night of haunting, and they think their father left their
mother to die in a deserted place, alone and helpless. The viewers get
to know the real story as the kids get to know them.

The show explores what effects disbelief and distrust can have in
a family. It revolves around the members of a family uniting to
resolve all their conflict together, helping each other. What it
definitely wasn't is a cheap haunted house story.

This is the only horror story I have encountered that explores what
might happen to the survivors of a haunting incident of supernatural
nature. It also incorporates a wide range of characters with unique
conflicts and identifiable relationship dynamic between each pair of
them. It was, all around, a good story.

## Outlining vs Discovery Writing

Some writers need to plot the story before they start writing. Some of
them just start writing, trusting the story to advance itself. Most of
them do a little bit of both.

Do you need to think about the implications of your story before you
finish it? No. But you should ponder about the humane elements after
you've finished writing it. Your first draft won't be perfect. It
doesn't need to be; nobody's gonna see it. What matters is what you
consider your final piece.

There's an interview of Jordan Peele, the writer-director of Get Out,
where he discusses the idea behind the Sunken Place. He explains that
the fear of being trapped into his own body and not being in control
of it has been haunting him from early childhood. He just brought that
fear onto the page. But when he read it afterwards, he understood the
connection between the Sunken Place and the minorities feeling
voiceless, powerless in the society. "I started crying," he said to
the interviewer.

## Endings are Hard

Horror is good. Give it a chance.
