---
title: "Why Avatar: The Last Airbender Rocks"
date: 2020-03-04
comments: true
category: Essay
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

## Introduction

This post is not about the James Cameron movie, neither is it about
the Shyamalan adaptation. It is about the Nickolodeon show that has
secured a place in the heart of every 2000's kid like a cat curling up
on its owner's lap.

## What is *Avatar: The Last Airbender*

*Avatar: The Last Airbender* is a fantasy show featuring a trio of
kids trying to save the world from a powerful and evil overlord. It
aired for three seasons through three years (2005 to 2008). Even after
a decade of its finale, it continues to be a shining example of
phenomenal storytelling.

## The Worldbuilding

Since the birth of *Lord of the Rings*, the first component any
fantasy story is criticized for is its worldbuilding. In simple terms,
worlbuilding is the task of creating a secondary world which adheres
to its own set of rules where the story will take place.

The worldbuilding of *Avatar* is complex in its simplicity. The whole
secondary world is expounded within the title sequence of each
episode. The intro in the title sequence is all anyone needs to enjoy
the show, but, below, the ingenuity and coherence of the Worldbuilding
are discussed.

The world of *Avatar* has four factions, each of which follows the
essence of its associated element. Air Nomads live in secluded
temples, detaching themselves from material needs and focusing on the
philosophical ones. Members of Water Tribe live near the polar regions
where water is aplenty, showing incredible amount of adaptability.
Inhabitants of Earth Kingdom have immovable principles and stoic ego.
Citizens of Fire Nation are warmongering and destructive, like fire;
but those who disavow their past teachings and traditions become warm
and lively, not unlike fire.

## Magic System

In a fantasy story, the second aspect that anyone looks into is its
magic system. Essentially, the rules which govern the secondary world
are collectively called its magic system.

The magic system in *Avatar* is based on bending: the ability to
manipulate an element. A dominant portion of every faction is able to
bend its associated element. *Avatar* works as well as it does because
the magic system not only makes the story fantastical, but actually
builds the world block by block and shapes the characters in
interesting ways. Two examples follow.

1. Earth Kingdom of Ba-Sing-Se has a transport system system that
   relies on Earthbending. Their trains do not have motors, because it
   has not been invented yet. Instead, two Earthbenders push each
   train along its track. The magic system and the Worldbuilding
   complement each other.

2. Katara, a Waterbender from the south pole, learns a new kind of
   bending that is closely associated with Waterbending but does not
   follow the ideology of Waterbending. In later episodes, it shapes
   her arc in identifiable ways.

## Incredible Characters

Although it is the third section in this post, the characters are
actually the most important aspect of any story. If the viewer does
not care about the characters, even the most phenomenal secondary
world with its ingenious magic system will not be enjoyable enough.

All the characters in *Avatar* are incredibly versatile and
self-consistent. Each of them goes through their own arc all the while
shaping others'. One example follows.

If one character of *Avatar* is more noteworthy than others, it is
Zuko. The banished prince of Fire nation first introduces himself as
the irresponsible and annoying youngster villain of the show, only to
surprise the viewers by going through one of the best redemption arcs
of all time.

There are countless example of equally incredible character arcs:
Toph's transformation from a fierce and belligerent master Earthbender
into a more sophisticated woman who does not feel like she has to
prove her toughness to the world, Sokka's transformation from a
sarcastic warrior with little abilities into a responsible adult with
extensive knowledge of battle and war. Even the animal characters like
Momo and Appa are not excluded from amazing character arcs.

## Enjoy The Little Things

Beside incredible worldbuilding and characters, Avatar brims with
details that elevate the storytelling. One such detail is mentioned
below.

Hair is pretty important in *Avatar*. The air Nomads do not have hair
while citizens of Fire Nation groom their hair to an exhaustible
degree.

After being defeated and mortally wounded by Azula, Aang has to go in
hiding to heal himself. Since his shaved head features a unique
tattoo, which is a dead giveaway that he is the Avatar, Aang grows out
his hair to disguise himself. That simple act of growing hair has
tremendous effects on his psyche; he thinks it to be a betrayal of his
identity as an Air Nomad. Eventually, he is healed enough to embark
upon his journey again, which is shown in the scene where he shaves
his head and returns to his former self.

On the other hand is Azula, the daughter of Fire Lord Ozai. She is
shown to be a power-obsessed Firebending prodigy by her groomed and
self-composed demeanor which continues to unravel as she gradually
grows unsure of her worth, ultimately culminating into her complete
breakdown in the scene where she cuts off her hair.

## Conclusion

The popularity of *Avatar* even after a decade of its finale is
evident of its remarkable excellence. Fans and creators alike revel in
the perfection of this incredible series.
